scripts/README.md, before:

# Code Formatting Scripts
This directory contains scripts for code formatting using [Ruff](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff), a fast Python linter and formatter.

## Setup Git Pre-commit Hook
```bash
# Must run:
uv run pre-commit install

# Optional run manually on all files:
uv run pre-commit run --all-files

# Run specific hook:
uv run pre-commit run ruff-format --all-files

# Update all hooks to latest version:
uv run pre-commit autoupdate

# Run pre-commit on staged files:
uv run pre-commit run
```

## Available Scripts
- `format_code.sh` - Common script used both by git pre-commit hook and GitHub Actions workflow

## How It Works
The formatting functionality is implemented in two ways:

1. **Git Pre-commit Hook**: 
   - Automatically runs every time you try to commit code
   - Formats all Python files in the commit
   - Adds the formatted files back to the staging area

2. **GitHub Actions Workflow**: 
   - Runs on a schedule (every Monday at midnight)
   - Formats all Python code in the repository
   - Commits and pushes the changes automatically

## Configuration
Formatting rules are configured in the `pyproject.toml` file at the root of the repository.

Commit message:

#24 add pruning of unused imports; support multi dir specification via list of dirs in .txt

scripts/README.md, after:

# Code Formatting Scripts
This directory contains scripts for code formatting using [Ruff](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff), a fast Python linter and formatter.

## Setup Git Pre-commit Hook
```bash
# Must run:
uv run pre-commit install

# Optional run manually on all files:
uv run pre-commit run --all-files

# Run specific hook:
uv run pre-commit run ruff-format --all-files

# Update all hooks to latest version:
uv run pre-commit autoupdate

# Run pre-commit on staged files:
uv run pre-commit run
```

## Available Scripts
- `format_code.sh` - Common script used both by git pre-commit hook and GitHub Actions workflow
- `format_dirs.txt` - Configuration file listing directories to format (one per line)

### Using format_code.sh

You can use the script in several ways:

1. **Default behavior** - Format directories listed in `format_dirs.txt`:
   ```bash
   ./scripts/format_code.sh
   ```

2. **Specify directories** - Format only specific directories:
   ```bash
   ./scripts/format_code.sh ./path/to/directory1 ./path/to/directory2
   ```

### What the Script Does
The script performs three operations on your Python code:

1. **Format code**: Applies Ruff's formatter to ensure consistent code style
2. **Sort imports**: Organizes imports alphabetically and by type
3. **Remove unused imports**: Identifies and removes any imports that aren't used

## How It Works
The formatting functionality is implemented in two ways:

1. **Git Pre-commit Hook**: 
   - Automatically runs every time you try to commit code
   - Formats all Python files in the commit
   - Adds the formatted files back to the staging area

2. **GitHub Actions Workflow**: 
   - Runs on a schedule (every Monday at midnight)
   - Formats all Python code in the repository
   - Commits and pushes the changes automatically

## Configuration
Formatting rules are configured in the `pyproject.toml` file at the root of the repository.
